Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a fantasy, horror,
and mystery film called “Tigers Are Not
Afraid."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
At the height of the drug war in Mexico, Estrella,
a young student, attends a local elementary
school.
On that day, their teacher assigns them to
write their own version of a fairytale.
Estrella decides to write a story about a
prince who wishes to be a tiger.
Meanwhile, a street orphan named Shine awaits
the perfect timing to steal valuables from
people passing by.
He sees a drunken Caco, a henchman of an infamous
crime boss, and sets him as his target.
While Caco is taking a piss, Shine steals
his gun and iPhone from his pants.
Still unnoticed, Shine aims the gun at Caco,
but he is unable to shoot.
Once Caco turns around, Shine hides in the
dark, and breaks into tears because of his
miserable life.
Back in the classroom, the school is disrupted
by gunfire from outside, causing the kids
to get down on the floor amid panic.
To calm the poor Estrella, her teacher hands
her three pieces of chalk which, according
to her, will grant three of her wishes, just
like in fairy tales.
The shootout finally subsides, and classes
are suspended until further notice.
On her way home, Estrella stumbles upon a
dead body covered in a thick carpet in broad
daylight, but she remains unfazed and continues
to walk home.
Unknowingly, the blood follows her in a thin
line and traces all around her house.
Estrella calls out to her mother several times,
but she does not seem to be at home.
She sits on the couch watching some television,
where she finally notices the traces of blood
surrounding her.
Meanwhile, Shine reunites with his friends
Pop, Tucsi, and Morro, who are orphans as
well.
Their group is the closest thing they have
to a family, and all of them grew up together
in the streets.
At bedtime, Morro, the youngest one, always
asks Shine to tell him stories.
Shine then tells him one about a tiger who
preys on orphans.
That same night, Estrella is still waiting
patiently for her mother’s arrival, but
to no avail.
She waits until the sun rises and endlessly
tries to reach her through the phone, but
still, her mother is unresponsive.
She sees Shine walking in the neighborhood
from the balcony and waits for her mother
until night falls.
While waiting, she recalls when the two of
them were still together, living happily despite
their modest conditions.
Estrella makes use of one of the three chalks
she has and wishes for her mother to come
back.
Suddenly, she hears subtle whispers around
the house that sound like her mother.
A ghostly figure touches her from behind,
frightening the little girl, so she spends
the night outside.
The following morning, sounds from inside
the house awaken Estrella.
She sees a boy in a tiger mask looting their
house.
She tries to stop him from stealing, eventually
unmasking the thief, who happens to be Shine.
Before running away, Shine tells Estrella
that her mother was taken by the huascas,
a human trafficking ring run by a gang.
She refuses to believe him and chases him
away.
Estrella hears the same whispers again from
the night before, and she runs outside out
of fear.
She sees the tiger mask from their balcony
and decides to follow Shine’s tracks.
She eventually arrives at their hideout and
sees the four orphans sharing a meal while
they gather their collection of stolen things.
They hear Estrella coming their way, but they
warn her that she isn’t welcome in their
territory and tells her to go home.
However, Estrella tells them that she is hungry
and is insistent on staying with them.
Shine tries to kick her out, but her cries
gain sympathy from Pop.
He encourages Shine to let the girl stay with
them because she might get abducted by the
huascas.
Estrella spends the night just outside their
fort, where Morro offers her some blankets
and a piece of biscuit.
Estrella is still hungry so scours through
the trash looking for some food.
Suddenly, a set of hands drag her.
Her screams wake up Shine.
He gets mad at her for being too loud and
goes back to sleep.
The following day, Shine tells Estrella to
get up as huascas are coming.
A car arrives with men who are planning on
capturing the kids.
Caco and another man chase after them, so
they hurriedly run through the neighborhood
roofs.
Estrella is afraid of heights, but Shine helps
her flee from the bad guys.
Shine shoots the stolen gun at them, and Caco
realizes that he was the one who stole his
phone and weapon.
In an empty alley, the two meet with Pop and
Tucsi, who inform Shine that the huascas got
Morro, and his stuffed toy tiger was the only
thing left behind.
Shine is in a fit of rage, knowing that one
of his closest friends is in great danger.
When Estrella asks what happens to the ones
they take, they tell her that the kids are
taken to Chino to be chopped off, and then
their body parts are sold.
They also add that the gang is known to practice
rituals, so they must have a deal with the
devil.
Shine is annoyed by Estrella’s presence
and blames everything on her.
As the three walk away, Estrella says that
she can make the huascas disappear, grabbing
their attention.
Shine hands her the gun and makes her a deal.
If she kills Caco, she can stay in their group.
Not wanting to waste any time, the four of
them arrive at Caco’s house, where Estrella
has second thoughts on doing the deed.
After a bit of encouragement, she climbs up
the wall and makes her way inside the house.
The interior is dark, and she hears Caco in
the living room watching the news.
She gathers up all her courage and approaches
from behind him.
While aiming the gun at him, Estrella takes
a piece of chalk and wishes that she didn’t
have to kill him.
Surprisingly, she sees that Caco is already
dead.
She drops the weapon and it misfires.
Not long after, she stumbles upon the house’s
backdoor, where numerous children are locked
up in cages, including Morro.
She sets every single one free, and they make
their way outside so the four friends could
reunite.
Estrella approaches Shine, who is in disbelief
that she made it out alive.
She hands him back the weapon, but he walks
away.
The group returns to the hideout and celebrates
their victory, but Shine is still in a cranky
mood.
He asks Estrella how she managed to pull off
the deal, and she simply says that she made
a wish.
Just then, the phone rings and Shine sees
that a man named Tio is trying to reach him
from Caco's phone.
He turns it off and walks away while Estrella
celebrates with the other children.
Later that night, Estrella wakes up and sees
insects coming out of her mouth.
She then gets another vision of her mother.
Through an empty cup, a voice warns her that
some people are coming for her.
Estrella insists that she didn’t kill Caco.
The voice then says that “the one who killed
him is looking for you," and she must bring
the man to her.
With the huascas on the lookout for them,
the children decide to pack their stuff and
look for another home.
Along the way, they pass by another gang’s
territory led by Brayan to drop the other
kids who are part of his gang.
They are intimidated by the older members,
but Shine remains unshaken, informing them
that Estrella killed Caco.
They soon find an abandoned mansion that would
serve as their new hideout, and the group
is amazed by how big the place is.
While alone in her room, the trail of blood
from earlier follows Estrella into the hallways.
As she cleans up, the blood drenches the entire
room.
As Estrella sees the bloodstains soaking up
the walls, she draws a line in the entrance
using the chalk to prevent the blood from
entering.
From there, she sees Shine sobbing from a
distance and goes to him for consolation.
The phone rings again and they receive a call
from Tio, who is furious about finding out
that the kids are behind his brother’s death.
The two of them realize that Brayan snitched
on them, putting them in even more danger.
Shine reveals that he keeps the phone because
it contains the only picture of his missing
mother.
Caco took the picture right after kidnapping
her.
That afternoon, the children find a box of
soccer balls and decide to have fun with it.
They play soccer, write jersey numbers on
their back, and decorate the balls to pass
the time.
After all, they are still kids who want to
enjoy a little fun in life.
Later that day, Morro comes crying to Estrella,
saying that his teddy got ruined, so she fixes
it for him.
From a distance, Shine sees her comforting
the distressed Morro and looks at her with
admiration.
Both of them share a conversation about how
a tiger’s abilities are one of a kind.
Estrella says that she feels terrible for
tigers who get caught and put in the zoo,
but Shine tells her that she shouldn’t,
as tigers are not afraid of anything.
Estrella browses through Caco’s phone but
doesn’t find anything.
Shine then shares about how the gang burned
their home and ruined his life completely.
She tells him that the only picture of her
mother left is now at their abandoned home.
Shine asks Estrella if she could use her final
wish to remove the burn marks on his face,
but she refuses to do so, claiming that something
bad happens whenever she makes a wish.
To cheer her up, Shine goes to Estrella’s
house alone to retrieve a picture of her and
her mother.
He soon gets spooked and rushes outside.
Unfortunately, Tio, Caco’s brother, is waiting
outside and immediately captures him.
While Estrella looks for Shine around the
house, she sees Tio just outside, so she hides
in one of the rooms.
She experiences another series of haunting
visions of her mother and other murder victims
who demand that she brings the gang to them.
Greatly frightened by this, Estrella runs
outside, where Tio catches her and brings
all the children to one area.
In an attempt to save his friends, Morro shoots
Tio, but he gets shot back, resulting in his
instant death.
Pop stabs Tio in the leg to avenge his friend
before carrying Morro with him as they flee
from the scene.
The group hides in another abandoned place
where they lay Morro in his favorite blanket
and teddy.
They break into tears as they worry about
how they can get away from the huascas.
Shine and Estrella begin to wonder why the
gang wants to phone so much.
They examine its contents and discover a video
recorded by Caco that shows Chino killing
a woman.
To put an end to their struggle, they call
Chino through the phone and tries to strike
up a deal.
Chino instructs them to meet him tomorrow
in an old spa by the railroad at 7 A.M.
If they give up the phone, the huascas will
stop bothering them, but if they don’t,
he will hunt them down.
Chino reveals that he was the one who killed
Caco and not Estrella.
The revelation angers Shine and he calls Estrella
a liar.
He takes the remainder of his group and abandons
her.
That night, Estrella experiences a haunting
vision of Morro and his stuffed toy tiger.
Confused, she looks over Morro’s dead body
and sees that it has risen while whispering
her name.
She sees more dead people around the room,
who were also victims of the huascas, commanding
her to bring Chino to them.
She runs to a room and repeatedly says, “tigers
are not afraid," to calm herself, but the
souls manage to get to her through a drain.
As she runs away, a tiny dragon, who seems
to be friendly, follows her around.
Meanwhile, Tucsi steals the phone away from
Shine.
He manages to convince Pop to turn it over
to the people, thinking that they might help
them.
The two then show the footage to two police
officers, but they are hesitant to act when
they see who the murderer is.
Instead of helping the boys, the officers
drive them away.
Shine grabs the phone back and notices a bracelet
worn by the woman in the video, which is identical
to the one worn by Estrella's mother in the
picture he had found earlier.
Realizing that they should find Estrella,
they go back to where they last saw each other
but they only find Morro’s corpse.
The boys then decide to give their friend
a proper burial.
In a playground, Morro’s ghost informs Estrella
where she can find the boys, and she follows
his advice.
As they reunite, Shine gives Estrella the
picture he got from their house, which makes
her teary-eyed.
She insists that they must meet with Chino
to save themselves and the group finally agrees.
After burying Morro in a box that they throw
into the water, the children go to the meeting
with Tio, Chino, and another man, in an old
building.
Shine gives up the phone and claims that he
doesn’t know the password, Chino suddenly
executes Tio and the other man before crushing
the phone with his foot.
Pop and Tucsi run away to avoid the commotion,
while Chino explains to Estrella and Shine
that he had honored their agreement to make
the huascas disappear.
Recognizing the old building, Estrella insists
on looking for her mother.
However, Shine reveals that Caco’s phone
is still in his hands because he gave Chino
a different one.
He then finally reveals that the woman in
the footage was her mother.
Shine reminds Estrella that wishes are not
real, but she still draws a line on Shine's
cheek, making her final wish to make his scars
disappear.
The trail of blood appears below him out of
nowhere, and Chino shoots him in the head
after realizing the deception.
Estrella runs around the building as she’s
chased by a bloodthirsty Chino, who grows
more agitated.
She climbs up to the ceiling to avoid him
and crawls around the vents to see him from
above.
Morro’s teddy leads Estrella into a shaft
where she falls into a room full of dead bodies,
including that of her late mother.
She tearfully reunites with her mother as
her bloody body briefly reanimates, transferring
her bracelet to Estrella.
She then uses the phone to lure Chino inside
the room to trap him inside, granting the
victims’ wishes.
She hears the ghost of Chino’s victims as
they finally get their revenge.
As she escapes, she sees Shine’s ghost.
She bids him farewell before she hands him
a lighter.
Shine gives her one last look before going
back into the room and setting it on fire.
As Estrella escapes, she encounters a real
tiger before finally arriving at an open field.